content/now.md, before:

+++
type = "static"
page = "static/single.html"
title = "Now"
description = "what I'm up to these days"
menu = "main"
weight = "1"
+++


### What do I do right now?

I am currently on medical leave. 

Prior to my leave, I was finishing my PhD at the University of Toronto. I am a PhD Candidate: all I have remaining is to write and defend my dissertation.   

My PhD research focuses on meta-awareness and attention. See my [about page](../about) for more on that.  

I also study psychedelics. I published some of the [first research on psychedelic microdosing](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12954-019-0308-4). I co-founded the [Canadian Centre for Psychedelic Science](https://psychedelicscience.ca) and our team ran the first Canadian Clinical Trial on psilocybin microdosing. I also co-founded the [Psychedelic Studies Research Program](https://www.utm.utoronto.ca/psychedelics/) at the University of Toronto.   

In December 2019, I did [a podcast](https://anchor.fm/tick-talk/episodes/Thomas-Anderson-Meditation--Science-and-Psychedelics-ea20jm) where I spoke about my personal history with research, including my research on meditation, which was the focus of my Master's thesis.  

Feel free to reach out or check out [my CV](https://1drv.ms/b/c/d12b959c76deddf6/Qfbd3naclSsggNEwfQAAAAAAl2PoEojby9Yz-g).  

<!--### Where am I headed tomorrow? -->


### Content I'm currently enjoying  

#### Books - Fiction  

* Fyodor Sologub - The Petty Demon  
* Laurence Sterne - Tristram Shandy  
* Joe Abercrombie - The Blade Itself
* Norm Macdonald - Based on a True Story  
* Vladimir Nabokov - Pnin  

#### Books - Non-Fiction  

* Tim Ferriss - Tribe of Mentors  
* Judea Pearl - Causality  
* Mortimer Adler - How to Read a Book
* Tom Segura - I would like to play alone please  

#### Courses  

* Currently scouting for a course

Commit message:

Added links to career advice book

content/now.md, after:

+++
type = "static"
page = "static/single.html"
title = "Now"
description = "what I'm up to these days"
menu = "main"
weight = "1"
+++


### What do I do right now?

I am currently on medical leave.  
In the meantime, I've been working on a [book of career advice for psychology](https://my-digital-garden-thomasandersonscience.vercel.app/).  

Prior to my leave, I was finishing my PhD at the University of Toronto. I am a PhD Candidate: all I have remaining is to write and defend my dissertation.   

My PhD research focuses on meta-awareness and attention. See my [about page](../about) for more on that.  

I also study psychedelics. I published some of the [first research on psychedelic microdosing](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12954-019-0308-4). I co-founded the [Canadian Centre for Psychedelic Science](https://psychedelicscience.ca) and our team ran the first Canadian Clinical Trial on psilocybin microdosing. I also co-founded the [Psychedelic Studies Research Program](https://www.utm.utoronto.ca/psychedelics/) at the University of Toronto.   

In December 2019, I did [a podcast](https://anchor.fm/tick-talk/episodes/Thomas-Anderson-Meditation--Science-and-Psychedelics-ea20jm) where I spoke about my personal history with research, including my research on meditation, which was the focus of my Master's thesis.  

Feel free to reach out or check out [my CV](https://1drv.ms/b/c/d12b959c76deddf6/Qfbd3naclSsggNEwfQAAAAAAl2PoEojby9Yz-g).  

<!--### Where am I headed tomorrow? -->


### Content I'm currently enjoying  

#### Books - Fiction  

* Fyodor Sologub - The Petty Demon  
* Laurence Sterne - Tristram Shandy  
* Joe Abercrombie - The Blade Itself
* Norm Macdonald - Based on a True Story  
* Vladimir Nabokov - Pnin  

#### Books - Non-Fiction  

* Tim Ferriss - Tribe of Mentors  
* Judea Pearl - Causality  
* Mortimer Adler - How to Read a Book
* Tom Segura - I would like to play alone please  

#### Courses  

* Currently scouting for a course
